and so among the most numerous
widespread and frequently exploited
members of the undergrowth these
Australia collect seeds and snore them
underground plants encourage them to do
so
by adding a tasty capsule to their seeds
that may seem odd but these ants don't
eat all the seeds they store in fact
seeds are more likely to germinate below
ground than above but not everything on
this forest floor is what it seems when
it comes to putting your eggs in a
suitable place some insects persuade
other insects to do the job for them
this little object looks like a seed and
certainly it's fallen from above and
that ant seems to think it's worth
eating
but actually it hasn't come from a plant
it's come from another insect and this
is it it's rather difficult to see
because it looks exactly like a dry leaf
but it's a stick insect as its head and
Tennie and that's the tip of its abdomen
as an adult like this it spends all its
time up in the trees eating leaves and
when the time comes to lay and this one
is doing so all she does is simply to
flick away the egg and let it fall to
the ground but that's not quite as risky
as you might think whenever you are you
can be pretty sure that some ants will
turn up looking for food and that is
exactly what the stick insect eggs look
like a nutritious seed complete with
that fatty capsule of the tip so the
ants start to haul them away
although the ants certainly eat a great
number of the seeds they store stick
insect eggs don't seem to be quite as
tempting at any rate the ants after all
their labor usually leave the stick
insect eggs untouched while the seasons
pass the eggs lie underground hidden
from birds and any other predators that
might eat them they may remain there
safe for up to three years but
eventually they hatch
if only at this early stage of its life
that a stick insect actually runs the
youngsters positively scamper up into
the tree branches there they will take
up their adult life of leisure well
camouflaged stolid the chirring leaves
giving your offspring a good start in
life can take a lot of effort so some
insects have evolved highly complex
strategies to induce other species to
become nursemaids on their behalf this
Californian desert hardly seems to be
the best paste of our nursemaids
but blister beetles have an amazing way
of discovering them
it starts simply enough with the female
beetle
she has dug the hole and is now laying
her eggs in it
that done she abandons a few centimeters
below the surface of the sand conditions
are good for eggs not too cold neither
too hot even in the heat of the day six
weeks later they hatch but these sands
are very barren and scorching hot
somehow the tiny larvae have got to find
food and they won't find it here their
survival depends on teamwork together as
a closely coordinated group they climb
up a stem of withered grass
when they get to the top there's nowhere
else to go
they look dangerously exposed to the Sun
and to other predators but there they
stay in a tight squirming mass for those
that can get there the top of this stem
has become a stage for a remarkable
piece of deception what these larvae
want is a lift a ride and they want it
so badly that sometimes they'll even try
and get it from a human finger what
they're really searching for is not a
human finger they're searching for
another insect here it comes
a female digger be leaving a tunnel that
she's just dug for her own young she's
off to get the pollen
she packs it into baskets on her back
legs and takes it back to her burrow
it'll provide valuable food for her
young when they eventually hatch and
here comes a male he's on the lookout
for a female
to him the cluster not only looks like a
female it smells like a female for the
beetle larvae are producing a perfume a
pheromone that is exactly like that
emitted by a female bee he alights in
order to mate and in seconds is covered
by the larvae that swarm all over him at
first he seems stunned by the shock of
his sudden increase in weight but then
he's off again
now his luck improves this really is a
female and while he mates his passengers
JumpShip
now they're all on board a female be she
having mated goes back to her nest to
lay taking the larvae with her
at last the young beetle larvae have
reached safety and food the sword of
pollen that the female digger be worked
so hard to collect for our own young so
they hop off and tuck in not only do
they consume the pollen when that runs
out they will eat the young bee larvae
too